.TH SCC 1 scc\-VERSION
.SH NAME
scc \- simple C compiler with magic
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B scc
.RB [ \-cdgkqQsWw ]
.RB [ \-M | \-E | \-S ]
.RB [ \-D
.IR def[=val] ] ...
.RB [ \-I
.IR dir ] ...
.RB [ \-L
.IR dir ] ...
.RB [ \-U
.IR def ] ...
.RB [ \-l
.IR lib ]
.RB [ \-m
.IR arch ]
.RB [ \-o
.IR outfile ]
.RB [ \-O
.IR level ]
.RB [ \-t
.IR sys ]
.RB sourcefile ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B scc
is a simple C compiler which takes several
.I sourcefiles
and compiles them to an executable. The default output file is
.B a.out,
which can be changed by defining some
.I outfile.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-c
Do not run the linker.
.TP
.B \-d
Do output internal tool messages.
.TP
.BI \-D " define[=value]"
Specify a
.I define
for the preprocessor.
.TP
.B \-E
Stop after the preprocessing stage, do not run the compiler and output the then
resulting source.
.TP
.B \-g
Do generate debug information.
.TP
.BI \-I " directory"
Define a include
.I directory
to get header files from. This directory is searched for before standard
include directories.
.TP
.B \-k
Do keep temporary objects.
.TP
.BI \-l " library"
Link against this 
.I library.
.TP
.BI \-L " directory"
Define a library
.I directory
to resolve dependencies from. This directory is used before the standard
paths.
.TP
.BI \-m " architecture"
Define the
.I architecture
to compile for (i.e. amd64, i386 ...).
.TP
.B \-M
Output a rule for 
.B make
describing the dependencies of the main source file.
.TP
.BI \-o " outfile"
Define the name of the
.I outfile.
.TP
.BI \-O " level"
Define the optimisation
.I level
to compile with. (This is a stub for compatibility reasons.)
.TP
.B \-q
Do not use
.I QBE.
.TP
.B \-Q
Do use the
.I QBE.
.TP
.B \-s
Strip all symbol tables and relocation information from the resulting executable.
.TP
.B \-S
Stop after the compilation stage, do not assemble and output the assembler
source.
.TP
.BI \-t " system"
Define the
.I system
to compile for (i.e. linux, openbsd ...).
.TP
.BI \-U " define"
Undefine a previously defined
.I define
by the -D parameter.
.TP
.B \-W
Show warning messages.
.TP
.B \-w
Do not show warning messages (default).
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
Certain environment variables control the behaviour of scc.
.TP
.B ARCH
defines the
.I architecture
to compile for (i.e. amd64, i386 ...).
.TP
.B SYS
defines the
.I system
to compile for (i.e. linux, openbsd ...).
.TP
.B ABI
defines the
.I application binary interface
to compile for (i.e. sysv ...).
.TP
.B FORMAT
defines the format of the output executable.
.TP
.B SCCPREFIX
defines the path prefix scc will search the scc suite in.
.SH AUTHORS
See the LICENSE file for the authors.
.SH LICENSE
See the LICENSE file for the terms of redistribution.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR scpp (1),
.BR make (1)
.SH BUGS
See the TODO file in the distribution.
