.Dd June 23, 2012
.Dt SSCALL 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm sscall
.Nd voice chat with your friends
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl v
.Op Fl b Ar brate
.Op Fl r Ar srate
.Op Fl c Ar nchan
.Op Fl d Ar drvid
.Ar rhost rport lport
.Nm
.Op Fl Vh
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
command will stream the stdin to the remote host
.Ar rhost
on the remote port
.Ar rport .
Similarly, the remote side can connect to the
.Ar lport
port on the local machine.  Note that
.Nm
uses a sample rate of 16kHz for all network communication.
If you cannot provide input audio of that type, you should tell
.Nm
to resample the audio using the
.Ar brate
option.  This will also affect output audio playback.
These options are generally useful if your system does
not support certain input/output sample rates.
.Pp
The options are as follows:
.Bl -tag
.It Fl v
Enable verbose output.
.It Fl b Ar brate
Use
.Ar brate
bits per sample.
.It Fl r Ar srate
Use
.Ar srate
samples per second (in a single channel).
.It Fl c Ar nchan
Set the number of channels to
.Ar nchan .
.It Fl d Ar drvid
Use the audio backend with id
.Ar drvid
instead of the default libao driver.  See
.Xr libao.conf 5
for more information.
.It Fl V
Print version information.
.It Fl h
Show the help screen.
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
Talk with host mypal at port 8888, opening local port 9999
for the incoming stream; the script my-rec.sh should handle voice
recording from the sound card's microphone:
.Pp
.Dl $ my-rec.sh | sscall mypal 8888 9999
.Pp
.Sh AUTHOR
Written by quantumdream.
.Sh ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
The people behind 2f30.org have been very helpful and their
ideas have been much appreciated.
.Sh COPYING
Copyright \(co 2012 quantumdream.
.Pp
This is free software distributed under the MIT/X Consortium License.
